.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
.ds iD \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
..
.Id $Id: d_fillnew.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999/09/30 04:45:50 kaz Exp $
.ds r \s-1TYPHOON\s0
.if n .ds - \%--
.if t .ds - \(em
.TH D_FILLNEW 1 \*(Dt TYPHOON
.SH NAME
d_fillnew \- insert a new record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <typhoon.h>
.br

\fBd_fillnew(ulong \fPrecid\fB, void *\fPbuf\fB)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBd_fillnew\fP inserts a new record in a table. \fIrecid\fP specifies the
type of the record stored in \fIbuf\fP. The inserted record retains the 
same database address throughout its life in the database.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The status code returned by the function is also stored in the global
variable \fIdb_status\fP.
.TP
.B S_OKAY
The record was successfully inserted.
.TP
.B S_NOCD
There is no current database.
.TP
.B S_INVREC
The record id is not valid.
.TP
.B S_DUPLICATE
One of the keys in the record would cause duplicates in a unique index.
\fIdb_subcode\fP contains the id of the conflicting field or key.
.TP
.B S_RECSIZE
A length determinator of a variable length field contained a illegal 
value. \fIdb_subcode\fP contains the id of the conflicting field.
.TP
.B S_FOREIGN
The target of a foreign key could not be found. \fIdb_subcode\fP contains
the id of the target table.
.SH CURRENCY CHANGES
If \fBd_fillnew\fP returned \fBS_OKAY\fP the record becomes the current record.
.SH EXAMPLE
#include <typhoon.h>

struct customer cust;
.br
strcpy(cust.name, "Pedersen");
.br
cust.account = 10002;
if( d_fillnew(CUSTOMER, &cust) != S_OKAY )
.br
	/* handle error */
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Thomas B. Pedersen.
.br
Copyright (c) 1994 Thomas B. Pedersen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
d_recwrite(1)

