.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
.ds iD \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
..
.Id $Id: d_keyfind.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999/09/30 04:45:50 kaz Exp $
.ds r \s-1TYPHOON\s0
.if n .ds - \%--
.if t .ds - \(em
.TH D_KEYFIND 1 \*(Dt TYPHOON
.SH NAME
d_keyfind \- search an index for a specific key value
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <typhoon.h>
.br

\fBd_keyfind(ulong \fPkeyid\fB, void *\fPbuf\fB)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBd_keyfind\fP is used to lookup a record in a table via one of its
indexes. \fIkeyid\fP specifies which index to search and \fIbuf\fP contains
the value to search for. If the index contains more than
one occurrence of the key value (only possible for non-unique indexes)
\fBd_keyfind\fP returns the first one.
.br

The id can be either the id of a compound key or a field that is a key
by itself.
.br

If the key value was not found, \fBd_keyfind\fP returns \fBS_NOTFOUND\fP.
A subsequent call to \fBd_keynext(1)\fP returns next value in the sorting
order.
.br

The actual record is not read from the database until \fBd_recread(1)\fP is
called.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The status code returned by the function is also stored in the global
variable \fIdb_status\fP.
.TP
.B S_OKAY
The key value was found.
.TP
.B S_NOTFOUND
The key value was not found.
.TP
.B S_NOCD
There is no current database.
.TP
.B S_INVFLD
The id is not a valid field.
.TP
.B S_NOTKEY
The field id is not a key itself.
.SH CURRENCY CHANGES
If \fBS_OKAY\fP is returned. the record found becomes the current record.
.SH EXAMPLE
/* Find the customer called 'Pedersen' */
.br

#include <typhoon.h>
.br

if( d_keyfind(CUSTOMER_NAME, "Pedersen") == S_OKAY )
.br
{
.br
    struct customer cust;
.br
    d_recread(&cust);
    printf("Account number %lu\\n", cust.account);
.br
}
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Thomas B. Pedersen.
.br
Copyright (c) 1994 Thomas B. Pedersen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
d_keynext(1), d_keyprev(1), d_keyfrst(1), d_keylast(1), d_recread(1).
