.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
.ds iD \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
..
.Id $Id: d_keyprev.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999/09/30 04:45:51 kaz Exp $
.ds r \s-1TYPHOON\s0
.if n .ds - \%--
.if t .ds - \(em
.TH D_KEYPREV 1 \*(Dt TYPHOON
.SH NAME
d_keyprev \- find the previous key value in an index
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <typhoon.h>
.br

\fBd_keyprev(ulong \fPkeyid\fB)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBd_keyprevf\fP finds the next key value smaller than or equal to the
current key value in the index specified by 
\fIkeyid\fP. If \fBd_keyprev\fP returns \fBS_NOTFOUND\fP the start of the
index has been passed. A subsequent call to \fBd_keyprev\fP will return the
last key value in the index.
.br

The id can be either the id of a compound key or a field that is a key
by itself.
.br

The actual record is not read from the database until \fBd_recread(1)\fP is
called.
.SH EXAMPLE
/* Traverse the customers in alphabetical, descending order */

#include <typhoon.h>
.br

d_keylast(CUSTOMER_NAME);
.br

while( db_status == S_OKAY )
.br
{
.br
	struct customer cust;
.br

	d_recread(&cust);
.br
	printf("%s\\n", cust.name);
.br
	d_keyprev(CUSTOMER_NAME);
.br
}
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The status code returned by the function is also stored in the global
variable \fIdb_status\fP.
.TP
.B S_OKAY
The key value was found.
.TP
.B S_NOTFOUND
The key value was not found, i.e. the index is empty.
.TP
.B S_NOCD
There is no current database.
.TP
.B S_INVFLD
The id is not a valid field.
.TP
.B S_NOTKEY
The field id is not a key itself.
.SH CURRENCY CHANGES
If \fBS_OKAY\fP is returned, the record found becomes the current record.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Thomas B. Pedersen.
.br
Copyright (c) 1994 Thomas B. Pedersen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
d_keyfind(1), d_keynext(1), d_keylast(1), d_recread(1).

