.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
.ds iD \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
..
.Id $Id: d_open.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999/09/30 04:45:51 kaz Exp $
.ds r \s-1TYPHOON\s0
.if n .ds - \%--
.if t .ds - \(em
.TH D_OPEN 1 \*(Dt TYPHOON
.SH NAME
d_open \- open a database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <typhoon.h>
.br

\fBd_open(char *\fPdbname\fB, char *\fPmode\fB)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBd_open\fP opens a database in either shared or exclusive mode.
If the database does not already exist it is created without warning.
The dbd-file must be placed in the path specified by d_dbdpath(1) and 
the database files must be placed in the path specified by d_dbfpath(1).
\fIdbname\fP is the name of the dbd-file without extension.
\fImode\fP is "s" or "x" for shared and exclusive mode, respectively.

If \fBd_open\fP returns \fBS_OKAY\fP the database becomes the current
database.

If the database has already been opened by another process in exclusive
mode, d_open returns S_UNAVAIL.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The status code returned by the function is also stored in the global
variable \fIdb_status\fP.
.TP
.B S_OKAY
Database opened successfully.
.TP
.B S_NOMEM
Out of memory.
.TP
.B S_INVDB
Invalid database name.
.TP
.B S_IOFATAL
Fatal file i/o error.
.TP
.B S_NOTAVAIL
The database has been opened in exclusive mode by another process.
.SH CURRENCY CHANGES
The opened database becomes the current database.
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Thomas B. Pedersen.
.br
Copyright (c) 1994 Thomas B. Pedersen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
d_dbdpath(1), d_dbfpath(1), d_setfiles(1), d_close(1), d_destroy(1), d_dbget(1).

