.de Id
.ds Rv \\$3
.ds Dt \\$4
.ds iD \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
..
.Id $Id: d_recwrite.3,v 1.1.1.1 1999/09/30 04:45:51 kaz Exp $
.ds r \s-1TYPHOON\s0
.if n .ds - \%--
.if t .ds - \(em
.TH D_RECWRITE 1 \*(Dt TYPHOON
.SH NAME
d_recwrite \- update the current record
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <typhoon.h>
.br

\fBd_recwrite(void *\fPbuf\fB)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBd_recwrite\fP updates the contents of the current record.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The status code returned by the function is also stored in the global
variable \fIdb_status\fP.
.TP
.B S_OKAY
The record was successfully updated.
.TP
.B S_NOCD
There is no current database.
.TP
.B S_NOCR
There is no current record.
.TP
.B S_INVREC
The  record id is not valid.
.TP
.B S_DUPLICATE
One of the keys in the record would cause duplicates in a unique index.
\fIdb_subcode\fP contains the id of the conflicting field or key.
.TP
.B S_RECSIZE
A length determinator of a variable length field contained a illegal 
value. \fIdb_subcode\fP contains the id of the conflicting field.
.TP
.B S_FOREIGN
The target of a foreign key could not be found. \fIdb_subcode\fP contains
the id of the target table.
.TP
.SH CURRENCY CHANGES
None.
.SH EXAMPLE
#include <typhoon.h>

struct customer cust;
.br
strcpy(cust.name, "Pedersen");
.br
if( d_keyfind(CUSTOMER_NAME, &cust.name) == S_OKAY )
.br
{
.br
	d_recread(&cust);
.br
	cust.account = 2000;
.br
	if( d_recwrite(&cust) != S_OKAY )
.br
		/* handle error */
.br
}
.SH IDENTIFICATION
Author: Thomas B. Pedersen.
.br
Copyright (c) 1994 Thomas B. Pedersen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
d_fillnew(1), d_recread(1)
